# Image Processing Based High Speed Vehicle Monitoring and Upload System
Final year project:Calculation of speed of vehicles using a camera, determine speeding vehicles and upload its image and speed to cloud storage; based on Image processing techniques. The system is made on a Raspberry pi 3 B with Pi Camera v2 on Python v3.7.

With the increase in vehicle use, the highway traffic has only surged. At the current rate of increasing vehicles, speed determination has become a major concern in avoiding fatal accidents. Radar technology is the current productive way used for speed detection. In this project, we studied an alternative method of using image and video processing and then uploading the image of detected overspeed vehicle for this system. It uses the live video stream from the surveillance camera for the calculation of speed of vehicles. The speed of vehicle is calculated continuously, hence, keeping a track on acceleration and deceleration of the vehicle within the field of view of camera. This system will also be capable of displaying the vehicle’s speed as it goes by. Background subtraction is the main method of differentiating the vehicle from background. It is done by implementing an algorithm for speed calculation where pixels displaced by the centers of these blobs of vehicles, frame per second, and meters per pixel within a measurement boundary are taken into calculation. Tests done on three sample videos resulted around 90% of vehicle detections at medium to high traffic density.
If a vehicle exceeds the allowed speed limit, its picture along with its speed will be captured from the video so that the traffic law enforcers will be able to take necessary actions based on the tracked speed. This helps in keeping track of the speed violators. The video can also be saved for future use. The speed calculated with this technique shows less error in real time and is tested in many ways and has proven to have achieved a satisfactory performance.
